♪♪ (Drum and Bugle Corps) ♪♪
Narrator:
Welcome to a very special
Inaugural Edition of the
West Wing Week!
Your guide to everything
that happened at the 57th
Presidential Inauguration.
This week Washington, D.C. was
transformed into an historic
stage with an estimated 1
million people on hand to
witness the President and
Vice President take the oath
of office at the
United States Capitol.
Through it all, West Wing Week
was there, from the terrace of
the Capitol, to
backstage at the balls.
America, take a moment to look
back at where we've been this
week with a Special Edition of
West Wing Week, January 18th to
the 24th or "Behind the
Scenes Inauguration 2013!"
(cheers and applause)
Bystander:
How are you doing?
The President:
I'm doing great.
I'm ready to work!
Bystander:
All right!
Narrator:
On Saturday, the First Family
kicked off Inauguration Weekend
by participating in the National
Day of Service helping out in
the construction of some
new bookshelves at Burrville
Elementary School
in Washington, D.C.
(cheers and applause)
The President:
I hear reports that the very
young people did some really
good work and some of the
older folks like me who it
hurt getting our knees kind of
bending down a little bit, this
is really what America is about.
This what is we celebrate.
This inauguration is a symbol of
how our democracy works and how
we peacefully transfer power.
But it should also be an
affirmation that we're all in
this together and that we've got
to look out for each other and
work hard on behalf
of each other, so...
♪♪ (band music) ♪♪
Narrator:
Then came the kickoff event
of Inauguration Weekend with
the First Lady and Dr. Biden
honoring military families at
the "Our Children, Our Future
Concert" where families of
active duty reserve and retired
service members got a chance to
catch performances by some
of America's top artists.
Sunday was officially the last
day of the President's first
term and the first day
of his second term.
In the morning after the Vice
President had been sworn in to
office, the President traveled
to Arlington National Cemetery
where he met the Vice President
for a wreath-laying ceremony at
the Tomb of the Unknowns.
Later, in accordance with the
Constitution, the President was
joined by Chief Justice John
Roberts in the Blue Room where
he was officially sworn
in just before noon.
Chief Justice Roberts:
Congratulations, Mr. President.
The President:
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
Thank you, so much.
Mrs. Obama:
Congratulations.
The President:
Thank you, sweetie.
(applause)
Narrator:
Monday marked the 57th
Inaugural Ceremony in our
nation's history.
Here is a little look-back
at that historic day.
The President:
America's possibilities
are limitless.
For we possess all the
qualities that this world
without boundaries demands:
Youth and drive; diversity and
openness; an endless capacity
for risk and a gift
for reinvention.
My fellow Americans, we are
made for this moment and we will
seize it so long as
we seize it together!
(cheers and applause)
For we, the people, understand
that our country cannot succeed
when a shrinking few do very
well and a growing many barely
make it.
(applause)
We believe that America's
prosperity must rest upon
the broad shoulders of
a rising middle class.
We know that America thrives
when every person can find
independence and
pride in their work.
When the wages of honest labor
liberate families from the brink
of hardship.
We are true to our creed when
a little girl born into the
bleakest poverty knows that she
has the same chance to succeed
as anybody else because
she is an American!
She is free!
And she is equal!
Not just in the eyes of
God, but also in our own!
(cheers and applause)
Narrator:
That evening, it was time
to celebrate, first at the
Commander-In-Chief's Ball where,
yes, the Commander-In-Chief
dialed in troops
serving in Afghanistan
via video teleconference.
Soldier:
Thank very much for having
us here at your party.
Congratulations!
Narrator:
The First Lady then joined the
President on stage for a first
dance serenaded by the one
and only Jennifer Hudson.
They then visited the Inaugural
Ball, they got the dancing
started at that party.
And had a chance to thank
the many talented musicians
who were there to perform.
The President:
All right.
Now we've got to do the poof --
Narrator:
On Tuesday, the President, the
Vice President, the First Lady
and Dr. Biden, attended the 57th
National Prayer Service at the
National Cathedral where
leaders of a wide array of faith
traditions gathered to pray
for our nation and our leaders.
Reverend Dr. Warnock:
We must all learn to live
together as brothers and
sisters or we will all
perish together as fools.
Narrator:
Then the President and First
Lady reprised a tradition that
began in their first term, a
special surprise greeting for
guests on the White House Tour.
The President:
Hey! We just want to
say hi to everybody.
Visitor:
Nice to meet you.
The President:
Good to see you!
You're a Malia?
Visitor:
Can I ask for a fist bump?
The President:
Boom!
I think Bo thinks your
coat might be alive.
That's not alive, Bo.
Sit, sit. There you go.
Arjun:
It was a very cold day out
there and I was, many times,
I was just turn around -- just
go and just come another time
but I'm so happy I did it.
And it's amazing.
Oh, my goodness.
Elsa:
He gave me a hug!
And I just, like,
forgot what's going on.
Clement:
This is January and I could
say that this is a great year.
Narrator:
That night, the President and
First Lady got a chance to thank
staff and volunteers at a
party that marked the end
of the 57th Inauguration.
Thursday marked the arrival of
the first snowfall of the season
in the Nation's Capital while
the White House continued a
series of conversations
on Google+.
This time it was Vice President
Biden who hosted a Fireside
Hangout, a 21 century take on
FDR's famous radio addresses to
talk about reducing
gun violence.
The Vice President:
And so make your voices heard!
That's one of the reasons I
wanted to be in this chat.
There's tens of thousands
of people listening to this.
I don't care which side
of the issue you're on.
Narrator:
Later, the President appeared
in the State Dining Room to
introduce his nominee to be
the Chair of the Securities
and Exchange Commission,
Mary Jo White.
And to announce that he'll
renominate Richard Cordray to
run the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.
Both Mary Jo and Rich have the
experience and passion which
they'll need to implement Wall
Street reform and stand up for
American consumers
in Washington, D.C.
To find out more information
on any of these topics or to
see complete videos of these
events, go to WhiteHouse.gov.
And thanks again for checking
out your West Wing Week!
Volunteer:
This is going to protect
our hands even more.
So these are gloves
for your hands.
The President:
What are we protecting
our hands from?
Volunteer:
The stain will actually
stain your hands.
The President:
So, like, when I put
my hand up tomorrow --
Volunteer:
Yes, you don't want stain.
The President:
-- or on Monday they'll be,
like, hey, how come he's got --
The First Lady:
Just don't be a wise quacker
and just put your gloves on.
The President:
How come he's walnut?
(laughter)